>> Mike North: Why would
we want to add types?
We saw that JavaScript does some
potentially unintuitive things
to convert primitive types
just with operators.
And when we think about checking for
equivalents and other things like that,
there is often no effort to convert or
even define the type of things, right?
There's no effort to define whether the
structure of an object is equivalent to
the structure of another object.
>> Mike North: So
one of the things we hope that types will
help us do is take some run time errors
and move them upstream
into compile time errors.
This is always a good thing.
You'll always want to be the one that
catches the error on the devbox,
not to get a bug report from your user.
Types serve as the basis for excellent
documentation to your fellow developers.
So has anyone here tried to
write a Webpack configuration?
Right, so it's a pretty involved object,
is it not?
And when you say, export this object from
your Webpack config JavaScript file.
You have to go to the documentation and
you have to read,
here are the various properties and these
are the values those properties can have.
And eventually,
you end up having this thing that works.
In the Typescript world, we would say,
well no, that's not just a regular object,
it's an object of this type.
And we have upfront defined the valid
properties you can define and
the valid types of values that
those things can have and
as a result, that is right there,
right in your editor.
It's not something that you
have to go flip back and
forth between documentation and code form.
>> Mike North: So,
[LAUGH] this fourth point here,
clever abstractions that you're so
excited about are now safer to use.
So I am fortunate enough to work with some
really amazing programmers
in the Ember ecosystem.
And some of these programmers
like Yehuda Katz and Tom Dale,
they're involved with TC 39 where they
define the JavaScript language standard.
That's the standard body there.
So these are good JavaScript programmers.
They have been working on a project
called Glimmer for a while now, and
this is the rendering engine for Ember.
And I don't think they would have
a problem with me, say they ended up
before writing it in Typescript, tripping
over their own shoelaces several times.
It's an extremely complicated task
that they're trying to perform.
It's a very involve project that involves
virtual machine style architecture and
Typescript is what let them actually,
on like the third attempt or
something, get it working.
Because even for those expert programmers,
the loosely typed
nature of JavaScript just kept snagging
them again, and again, and again.
We can only do so much, we're humans,
right, we can only remember so much.
We can only keep so much straight,
and these are not training wheels,
these are tools for kind of taking
on more ambitious challenges,
and being able to get
past that point where.
And I think we've all been there or
we all will be there one day, but
that point where things are so complex
that a project is basically starting to
collapse under its own weight or
under its own complexity.
So Glimmer is a great example there
of something that due to Typescript
now is going very well.
And previous attempts,
which involved regular JavaScript,
they basically fell flat again and again.
Last reason, not the last reason, but
my final reason here to add types.
We have to take into account that modern
JavaScript run types are written in typed
languages like C++.
So, if we just to give
you a sneak pick here,
I don't think we'll talk
about this in too much depth,
but the idea of how Chrome works under
the hood is there an interpreter and
a compiler.
The interpreter starts running your code,
right?
Runs, say a function that you've defined.
And if you are very consistent about
the way you use that function and
you start to use it over and
over and over and over again.
Chrome will say,
well hey, we've got some information
about the use of this function.
And it seems that the same number
of arguments are being passed in,
the types of those arguments are the same,
I wonder if we could start to
kind of optimize this a bit.
And it will promote it
from the interpreter and
it'll let the optimizing
compiler handle it.
If you hear the name Ignition
that's the name of the interpreter,
TurboFan is the name of the compiler.
And at that point it's basically gonna
turn your JavaScript into assembly code
for the architecture that your
machine's using and cache some portion
of that assembly code for
reuse on the subsequent function calls.
So if you,
the term a lot of people use here is
that function just became hot code.
Meaning it's running fast and
it's in this optimized mode.
As soon as you mess with the types,
as soon as you break the rules of
the strongly typed world,
that code goes back into slow mode again.
So Typescript gives us some
constraints that help us
get into that hot mode and stay there.